## 4-2-1: Examining Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)

At the end of this episode, I will be able to:    

1. Identify and explain the importance of public key infrastructure, given a scenario.    

Learner Objective: *Identify and explain the importance of public key infrastructure, given a scenario.*    

Description: In this episode, the learner will examine public key infrastructure. We will explore the common components such as certificate authorities, public keys, Certificate Signing Requests, Certificate Revocation Lists and more.

--------  

* What is Public Key Infrastructure or PKI?
	* A framework for securing communications through the issuing and lifecycle management of digital keys and certificates
	* Implemented to facilitate encryption, authentication, and digital signatures in online transactions and communications.
* What are some of the components of PKI?
	+ Certificate authority or CA
		- Root/offline CA
			* The highest-level authority in the certificate hierarchy, responsible for issuing and signing certificates to subordinate CAs
			* This CA's security is especially crucial and is commonly taken offline to prevent a compromise
		- Subordinate/Issuing CA
			* An intermediate authority that operates under a root CA issuing and signing digital certificates * * These intermediate CAs are sometimes referred to as issuing CAs. In these instances, they will issue all certificates lower than the root CA in the PKI hierarchy.
		- Standalone CA vs. Enterprise CA
			* Standalone - is an independent CA that issues and manages certificates, doesn't rely on a hierarchical structure, and is typically used in smaller or isolated environments.
			* Enterprise CA -  that is integrated into an organization's network and issues and manages certificates for internal use.
		- Internal CA vs. External CA
			* Internal - a CA used within an organization's internal network to issue certificates, with the authority not trusted outside the organization.
			* External - a CA used for issuing certificates to entities publically, with the authority being trusted globally.
		- Root of trust  - a trusted entity or authority whose digital signature and public key are accepted as a foundation of trust in the PKI hierarchy.
	+ Digital certificate
		- An electronic document issued by a trusted authority, or Certificate Authority \(CA\), that binds a public key to an individual, device, or service
		- These documents serve as a means of authentication and encryption for secure communications, digital signatures, and access control.
	+ Additional components
		- Certificate Signing Request \(CSR\) 
			* A formal request generated by an entity, such as an organization or user, to request a digital certificate from a CA.
			* A CSR can be sent to an internal or external CA
		- Certificate Revocation List \(CRL\)
			* A dynamically updated list maintained by a CA containing serial numbers of certificates that have been revoked or are invalid before expiry
			* This provides verification and trustworthiness of the certificate.
			* This is an older resource-intensive method for determining whether a certificate is valid or revoked.
		- Online Certificate Status Protocol \(OCSP\)
			* A real-time network protocol used to check the validity and revocation status of certificates
			* This provides verification and trustworthiness of the certificate
			* An alternative method for determining whether a certificate is valid or revoked.
		- Online responder
			* A server that processes OCSP requests (certificate validity check requests\)
			* This provides quick, real-time responses on the validity and revocation status of certificates.
			* Less resource intensive, great efficiency
		- Key escrow
			* The process of storing a copy of cryptographic keys with a trusted third-party
			* This is commonly done for recovery or backup purposes in case the original key is lost or compromised.


----------
* Additional Resources:
	+ If applicable